Jobs index page rework (#309)
NCAR/HPC-Docs: docs/pbs/index.md

# What is a Job?

Unlike a personal machine, NCAR HPC resources are shared between a plethora of different users with different use cases. In order to ensure everyone has fair access to computational resources, a __job scheduler__ is used to ration out resources for certain periods of time. These allotments of resources are known as __jobs__. Users can access these computational resources by submitting commands to the job scheduler.

### Types of Jobs
There are 2 types of jobs that users can request when on the system.

#### Batch jobs

> A batch job is a type of job that submits a bash command or script to its requested resources where the commands are executed by the scheduler. This type of job is entirely non-interactive and is usually the most common type of job on NCAR HPC Resources.

Author: How about this?

```suggestion
A batch job is a type of job that submits a request for resources along with bash commands or a script. The scheduler then finds the desired resources and executes provided commands on said resources. This type of job is entirely non-interactive and is usually the most common type of job on NCAR HPC Resources.
```

> ##### Reasons to run a batch job:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Reasons to run a batch job:**
```
Clean up the table of contents.

- The application does not require any interaction with the user. 
- The application needs to be run many times either in series or in parallel.

You can run a batch job either by preparing a [job script](#job-scripts) and [submitting it with](#submitting-your-first-job) `qsub` or with `qcmd` for singleton commands.

#### Interactive jobs
An interactive job is an allotment of resources without a predetermined set of commands submitted with the request. These types of jobs load you into an interactive session where you can run your commands directly on a node. These types of jobs are usually best for developing workflows or debugging applications. They can also be used when doing visualization or development work. Interactive jobs can be invoked directly on the command line, by requesting a JupyterHub session, or by [requesting a FastX session](../compute-systems/casper/remote-desktops.md#using-fastx).

##### Reasons to run an interactive job:
- You need to build or test the workflow before committing to a script.
- You need to interact with the application as it is executing.
- You are building an application that is best tested on a compute node in real time.

> To get an interactive job run the `qinteractive` command.

Reviewer: Link to the advanced pbs topics qinteractive section might be helpful here.

| `#PBS -q main` | Specifies the desired PBS queue for this job |
| `#PBS-l walltime=00:05:00` | Requests 5 minutes as the maximum job execution (walltime) time. Specified in HH:MM:SS format. |
| `#PBS -l select=2:ncpus=128:mpiprocs=128` | Request a computational resource chunk, detailing the quantity and configuration of compute nodes required for this job. This example requests a selection of 2 nodes, where each node must have 128 CPU cores, each of which we will use as an MPI rank in our application. |

Some directives like queues may vary from system to system. Please check out our [queues and charging](./charging.md) page for more informatiom

##### Environment Setup
Once your PBS directives are in place, there’s no restriction on what else is needed in script. This being said, CISL recommends users configure their environments to be tailored to what their job needs are at the start of the script. This usually includes explicit module setup, setting a `TMPDIR`, and setting any additional variables you might need within the script. 

**Loading and reporting the specific module environment required for this job.**

> Defining the module environment is not required but highly recommended as a best practice to facilitate debugging or reproducing later.  If the module environment is not defined in the script then the job with run with the default module stack.  The default module stack is changed periodically which could lead to errors if you compiled an application with an older, incompatible default module environment.  Additional details on setting up your module environment can be found in the [modules](../environment-and-software/user-environment/modules.md) section.

Reviewer 2: "with run" should be "will run"

**Explicitly setting the `TMPDIR` variable.**

As described here, many programs write temporary data to `TMPDIR`, which is usually small and shared amongst users. Specifying your own directory for temporary files can help you avoid the risk of your own programs and other users' programs failing when no more space is available.

> (Optional) Defining any environment variables specific to the chosen module environment.

Reviewer 2: This is not demonstrated by the example and to me, is vague. I suggest it is cut.

```
qstat -u $USER
```
Your output will be similar to what is shown just below. Most column headings are self-explanatory – `NDS` for nodes, `TSK` for tasks, and so on.

In the status (S) column, most jobs are either queued (Q) or running (R). Sometimes jobs are held (H), which might mean they are dependent on the completion of another job. If you have a job that is held and is not dependent on another job, CISL recommends killing and resubmitting the job.
```
                                                       Req'd  Req'd   Elap
Job ID         Username Queue   Jobname SessID NDS TSK Memory Time  S Time
------         -------- -----   ------- ------ --- --- ------ ----- - ----
657237.chadmin apatelsm economy ens603   46100 60  216   --   02:30 R 01:24
657238.chadmin apatelsm regular ens605     --   1   36   --   00:05 H   --
657466.chadmin apatelsm economy ens701    5189 60  216   --   02:30 R 00:46
657467.chadmin apatelsm regular ens703     --   1   36   --   00:10 H   --
```

Following are examples of `qstat` with some other commonly used options and arguments.

Get a long-form summary of the status of an unfinished job.
```
qstat -f jobID
```

> !!! Warning

Reviewer 2: Thanks to the caching, this warning can be removed. :smiley:

    Use the above command only sparingly; it places a high load on PBS.

Get a single-line summary of the status of an unfinished or recently completed job (within 72 hours).

```
qstat -x jobID
```
Get information about unfinished jobs in a specified execution queue.

```
qstat <queue_name>
```
See job activity by queue (e.g., pending, running) in terms of numbers of jobs.

```
qstat -Q
```
Display information for all of your pending, running, and finished jobs.

```
qstat -x -u $USER
```

> Query jobs running on one system by specifying the system as shown here. (Only these options are supported when running qstat in this cross-server mode: `-x, -u,-w, -n, -s`)

Reviewer 2: This is also no longer true in the latest version of the cache. It can be removed!

```
qstat -w -u $USER @derecho
```
!!! tip

    Query jobs running on one system by specifying `@derecho` or `@casper` from either system as shown here.

```
qstat -w -u $USER @derecho
qstat -w -u $USER @casper
```

> Only these options are supported when running `qstat` in this cross-server mode: `-x, -u, -w, -n, -s`

Reviewer 2: This too can be removed.
